---
subject: 'You can always plan for 1 thing in every software project'
number: '009'
previewText: 'Software planning is hard.  But, there is one thing you can plan for with 100% certainty.'
viewInBrowserLink: 'https://focus.dev/the-1-thing-you-can-plan-for-in-every-software-project/'
---

## There's one thing you can plan for with 100% certainty when building software.

Guaranteed. With every project.

It's change:

- Customers will change their mind as the product evolves.
- Technologies will change as they mature or fade away.
- Plans will be changed to reflect new business needs.
- New information will change developer estimates.
- The project may completely change direction.

So why do agencies still use fixed price contracts with specifications?

> Change is their biggest profit margin.

They detail every requirement into the contract.

That gets you locked in.

Once your locked in, the agency holds all the cards.

Any deviation from the contract specifications means a change request.

A change request becomes a negotiation for more money.

> I've had many potential prospects come back to me 6-12 months later and say:  We made the wrong choice!

They've spent just as much as I quoted and have a software product they hate.

They're afraid to make changes because changes are expensive and they're already over budget.

We do things different.

We may not be the cheapest option, but we build products our customers love.

We build our margins into our initial quote so there aren't surprises down the road.

## How do we do it?

Send me a DM for a consultation.