---
subject: 'We have too many bugs in production…'
number: '012'
previewText: 'Are the bugs in production the real problem? They are likely just a symptom of something much deeper.'
viewInBrowserLink: 'https://focus.dev/we-have-too-many-bugs-in-production/'
---

## Are production bugs the real problem?  Or are they just a symptom.

This week I sat on the phone with a customer service agent for 15 minutes.

We were trying to figure out why I couldn’t login to their system.

It turns out, whoever setup my account capitalized the first letter of my last name in my email address:

```
first.Last@gmail.com
```

Their system was programmed to be case sensitive and wouldn’t accept anything else as the username.

The result:

- I left the call frustrated with the business after wasting 15 minutes of my time.
- The representative wasted 15 minutes of their time with a single customer.
- I also left wondering if they missed something so basic, is the system secure?

For a number of reasons (including this one) email addresses should be treated as case-insensitive.

It seems obvious, but it really comes down to acceptance criteria.

If the developer doesn’t know that.

And QA doesn’t know that.

No one tests for it and it simply doesn’t get caught…

- Do your requirements specify acceptance criteria?
- Does it contain the necessary detail?
- Are you leaving out assumptions?

At the end of the call, I did tell them my agency would be happy to help them fix the problem.

---

Does your organization need help?

Are you addressing the real root of the problem?

Simply respond to this email for a free consultation.